# Meeting 2022-04-14

## Attendees

* James M Snell
* Filip Skokan
* Rita Kozlov
* Becca Zandstein
* Alyson Cabral
* Tobias Nie√üen
* Eugene Kim

## Notes

### Charter

* jasnell: Presented the initial draft of the proposed W3C Community Group charter.
* filip: Suggested also clarifying language around possible non-applicability of in-scope work to Browser environments. Will open an issue or PR with suggestions
* Reviewed W3C Code of Conduct and License requirements
* (via Matrix: Luca C. and Benjamin Gruenbaum both gave regrets that they couldn't make the call but indicated support for the draft charter.)

### Press 

* alyson: Cloudflare will be putting out a press release on May 9th, along with an associated blog post. We'll be sending out a draft next week and will be seeking quotes from members and permissions to use logos.
* alyson: The group also needs a simple website up in time for the press releases.
* (via Matrix chat: Luca mentions that he will speak to the Deno design folks to see if they can throw together a simple page to get started)
