## Meeting 2022-05-13

### Attendees

- Luca Casonato
- James M Snell
- Filip Skokan
- Becca Zandstein
- Steve Faulkner
- Bret Little
- Anne van Kesteren
- Colin Ihrig
- Maxim Shirshin
- Dylan Thacker-Smith


### Action Items

1. Go through the minimum common API and create issues as needed
1. Create issues on the browser vendors to identify who should be involved in
   crypto proposal - @lucacasonato
1. Set up a separate meeting to specifically go through fetch spec
1. Create an issue outlining pa potential module format work stream -
   @maxshirshin

## Notes

1. Introductions
2. Nominations for chairs & elections
   - https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/19
   - Unanimous two co-chairs
     - James Snell
     - Luca Casonato
3. Logo - no one opposed
4. Matrix channel - no one opposed to making it public
5. Workstream updates
   - Minimum Common API
     - Not creating new APIs. Taking already existing APIs.
     - Implemented or intent to implement by at least 2 of the runtimes.
     - Workers cannot declare something new on global scope that is read-only.
     - Need to go through 1 by 1 to know slight mismatches between what the
       official spec says and what weâ€™ll implement
     - Documenting where runtimes will have variances from the spec.
     - Should globalThis be there at all? Is that more a part of the language
       spec?
     - Do not want too many implementation details within the list. High level
       variants instead, link to more descriptive documentation where necessary.
     - **ACTION ITEM**: go through the common API and create issues as needed
   - Web Crypto Streams
     - Priority for us, hope to upstream this to the W3C webcrypto spec
       eventually.
     - **ACTION ITEM**: submit the current proposal to folks that represents the
       browser web crypto implementers
     - **ACTION ITEM**: create issues on the browser vendors to identify who
       should be involved
   - Fetch
     - We don't want to define an entirely new fetch spec, rather a subset of
       what already exists.
     - After we have concrete work to show, we can start talking with Anne /
       WHATWG on how to integrate changes into the existing fetch spec.
     - If a platform adds extensions, these should be coordinated with WinterCG
       and WHATWG to make sure names are not going cause future problems.
     - **ACTION ITEM**: set up a separate meeting to specifically go through
       fetch.
6. Potential future work streams
   - File System API
     - https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-common-minimum-api/issues/5
     - Cloudflare has no intention to implement
     - Deno is interested in investigating streaming based API
   - Supported module formats
     - Should module formats be part of "common api" workstream?
     - Would a single-file runtime be supported?
     - Possibly unnecessary to support the full ESM spec
     - Supported specifier formats
     - Filip Skokan - portably loading modules to polyfill unsupported
       functionality
     - **ACTION ITEM**: Maxim Shirshin to create an issue outlining work stream
