# Minutes of the 8th meeting of Ecma TC55

|            |                                               |
|:-----------|----------------------------------------------:|
| held in:   |                         Google Meet (virtual) |
| on:        |                                  12 June 2025 |
| Chairs:    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia) |
| Attendees: | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Chris de Almeida (IBM), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |
| Secretary: |                Aki Braun (Ecma International) |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella (Igalia)**, vice chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. The planned meeting duration was reduced to approximately 30 minutes due to scheduling conflicts. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 15 May 2025

The minutes were reviewed and the associated [GitHub pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/118) was merged.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on ***[the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/120)***, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

- Review of the notes for last meeting ([Minutes of 7th meeting, 15 May 2025 \#118](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/118)) (5 min)
- Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
- Detect production/dev ([API needed: an immutable expression to detect production/dev proposal-minimum-common-api\#89](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/89)) (10 min?)
- Continue going through the fetch spec (30 min?)

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Environment detection API

There is [an open issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/89) seeking to standardize an expression to describe the current engine environment. The committee universally agrees that introducing such an expression as a binary option (such as “is production” true/false or “environment” with only dev/prod as possible values) would be a mistake, as environments have endless diversity as applications and the technology to host them grow.

**Owen Buckley (Invited Expert, Project Evergreen)** brought up the important cases where there are distinctions between *where* an application is running vs *how* the application was built (such as development environment and debug mode). The committee will continue the discussion between meetings in the comments of the linked GitHub issue, including the distinction between environment and mode.

## 5 Any other business

The committee has done its early specification work using the [Bikeshed](https://github.com/speced/bikeshed) tool, and would prefer not to need to rewrite it from scratch in a different tool. **Andreu Botella** has changed the boilerplate for the draft specifications to have the Ecma and WinterTC logos, since they still had W3C Community Group-related logos and boilerplate. They have also begun working on an output template to match Ecma’s baseline template, for which a very [early draft](https://andreubotella.github.io/wintertc-bikeshed-template/min-common-api.pdf) is available for review.

There was some discussion about the Minimum Common API specification normatively referencing WHATWG specifications such as HTML and Fetch, since WHATWG is not an official standards development organization (SDO). W3C in the past decided to allow referencing WHATWG, but that would be harder to do for Ecma since its standards are fast-tracked into ISO. **Aki Braun** is investigating the available options.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 26 June 2025.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
