|                 |                                                                           |
|:----------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [3rd meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/99) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                     |
| on:             | 06 March 2025                                                              |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), James Snell (Cloudflare), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Lino Le Van (Chic, Invited Expert), Filip Skokan (Okta, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |  
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 20 February 2025

The minutes were available for review in their relevant [GitHub pull request](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/pull/101), and approved by the committee.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on the meeting’s associated GitHub issue, [wintercg/admin#99](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/99), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

- Runtime Keys
- Progression of the minimum common API
  - On formally identifying the subset of web platform tests
  - Updates on `[Exposed=*]` APIs
- Feedback for or collaboration with TC39 regarding `import.meta` and potentially using stronger normative language
- Environment variables
- Continuation: Fetch

## 4 Discussions

First, some meta: the committee decided that in the future, they will attempt to timebox their agenda items ahead of the meeting, in the hopes of effectively reaching each topic.

### 4.1 Runtime keys

**Ethan Arrowood** brings questions from OpenJS, starting with: why does TC55 want to transfer away Runtime Keys? **Luca Casonato** suggests that it’s out of scope of TC55. **Ethan Arrowood** asks is the runtime keys specification *relevant* to TC55’s work? It does not appear that TC55 will be referencing it normatively any time in the future, so maybe a different body should take responsibility for this registry. **James Snell** suggests the OpenJS Foundation bring it to IANA to take over, **Lino Le Van** supports that idea, even if TC55 does end up normatively reference it. James and Ethan will pursue this transition.

### 4.2 Minimum Common API

**James Snell** emphasizes the need for a future call dedicated to focusing on Web Platform Tests, and specifically what subset will be included in a description of minimum common API conformance.

#### 4.2.1 Shadow Realms

Shadow Realms is reaching Stage 3 in TC39, and unlikely to change in the future. Ideally, everything in Shadow Realms is available to Minimum Common API, but **Andreu Botella** points out that there are [some additions that are not](https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/21) either because they are too new or they may have been seen as irrelevant. This is another feature that is functionally being specified across WHATWG, working groups within W3C, and TC39.

`WritableStreamDefaultWriter` appears be missing due to an oversight, **Luca Casonato** seeks consensus to add it, **James Snell** volunteers to own that action.

`globalThis.isSecureContext` and `WebTransportWriter` are unlikely to be relevant to server side implementations as they deal in specific browser contexts.

For most remaining features, they will likely be listed in the specification as normative-optional, while providing a fallback for runtimes that have previously implemented a conflicting option. **James Snell** would prefer to make them required to be considered compliant. **Andreu Botella** will open a PR to add `CustomEvent`, `ErrorEvent`, and `PromiseRejectionEvent` and copy indicating that global should be an event target.

### 4.3 `import.meta`

Naming things is hard. `import.meta` is relevant to TC55’s work, but is primarily being specified in TC39 who have not been committing to any normative descriptions of the contents. **James Snell** has opened [an issue on the ECMA-262 repo](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/3539) to push for clarity. **Luca Casonato** wants to see certain properties and their types normatively specified by TC39. If this as well was to go to the IETF for registration by IANA, all known values would need to be collected across WHATWG, TC39, and any other SDOs involved in this overlapping space.

This is so meaningful because it can be statically analysed, **Luca Casonato** queries if it cannot be specified is there a different unforgeable global to pursue?

### 4.4 Fetch

#### 4.4.1 Mutual TLS (mTLS)

Server-side runtimes can handle certificate exchange in a more seamless way than browsers, should be available in fetch where possible; **Filip Skokan** [proposes](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/7) mTLS auth extensions to Fetch and Request API.

Participants are in agreement that this should be pursued further—even if runtimes will implement their approaches to the request object differently, handling mTLS within those approaches should be standardized. Next steps, **Filip Skokan** will begin to record current API implementations across runtimes in an effort toward a future proposal for standardizing this when it may not be appropriate upstream in the Fetch specification.

#### 4.4.2 HTTP Message Signatures

RFC9421 provides for [message signing within HTTP requests](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/8) at application level—could be implemented in userland, would be better and safer for users for it to be added directly to Fetch spec. This should be available at the browser and server-side level, but it doesn’t necessarily *need* to be specified for fetch by TC55.

The committee is not opposed to doing such work, but **Lino Le Van** suggests this is better completed by WHATWG. If WHATWG is not interested, TC55 will reconsider.

#### 4.4.3 Marching down the list of Fetch features (continued from 2nd mtg)

- Connection pooling
  - Network partition key is the agent. If a runtime has no notion of agents/clients, then there could be multiple partition keys. All global fetch calls with no explicit agent share a network partition key.
  - Connection pooling: pretty hand-wavey, seems like this is generally only specified for timing. "This is intentionally a little vague"
- Port blocking
  - Need to investigate what different runtimes do
  - Probably needs to be normative optional - there are use cases where you want to permit sending requests to any port
- No request blocking based on mime type
- HTTP extensions
  - origin header should not be set: servers sometimes treat requests with these specially.

There are also some features we have identified as possibly being useful:

- Trailers
- HTTP Upgrade API
- Letting users set content-length for HTTP streams
- API to receive interim responses (100 / 101 status code)
- Allowing async iterables in request / response bodies
- Disabling automatic response body decompression

See the [tracking issue](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1) for progress. Diff captured by GitHub, see edit from 06 March.

## 5 Any other business

None.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 20 March, 2025

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues) in the WinterTC admin repo, and should remain publicly available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
