|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [10th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/123) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 10 July 2025                                                                |

|                |                                                                                                                                                  |
|:---------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                    |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Samina Husain (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Samina Husain (Ecma International)                                                                                                               |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 25 June 2025

The minutes had been distributed by the Ecma Secretariat, and notes from the meeting had been made into [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/125) reviewed by the attendees of the meeting.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/123), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.
 
* 5m: update on runtime keys after investigating IANA process some more
* Continue going through the fetch spec (30m or more?)

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Runtime keys IANA process

**Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert)** updated the committee on his research specific to establishing a registry of runtime keys with IANA. The process, as it turns out, requires a formal RFC and significant bureaucratic overhead, which the committee was specifically attempting to avoid long-term. He proposes falling back to the plan involving a *de facto* registry within a repository, with usage and uptake dependent on norms within the ecosystem. The goal in this scenario is to reduce overhead and provide choice, driving usage not due to a specific standard but rather an overall quality-of-life improvement for developers. The ownership question remains.

**Samina Husain (Ecma International)** suggested a Technical Report with a release schedule of up to quarterly as the primary source of truth for the registry list, easing the hosting burden but not the overall editorial ownership burden.

The conversation will continue in future meetings and specifically when James Snell (Cloudflare) and/or Luca Casonato (Deno Land) are able to be present.

### 4.2 Fetch review for minimum common API

#### 4.2.1 API review

The committee continued its review of the [Fetch API](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/) from WHATWG. Andreu Botella (Igalia) updated [the tracking issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-3057980630) with the day’s conclusions, included here as well.

#### 4.2.2 "HTTP-network-or-cache fetch"
 
* Step 14 skip (traversable for user prompts is "no-traversable"), but we might consider adding some option for user prompts of authentication in the fetch options bag (alongside things like CA certificates).
* Step 15.1 would always return an error, *15.2 – 15.5* *skip*

#### 4.2.3 "HTTP-network fetch"

* Step 3, 7.2, 7.4, 7.5.1, 7.5.4.1 not relevant for runtimes that don't have PerformanceObserver(timing info)
* Step 7.3 disallows stream request bodies for HTTP/1.x, even though they apparently can be chunked. Should we support this in server-side runtimes? See [Request body streams should use chunked encoding whatwg/fetch\#966](applewebdata://D301628A-634A-4B5E-A507-60B4D48EC9D4/Request%20body%20streams%20should%20use%20chunked%20encoding%C2%A0whatwg/fetch#966), [Chrome Streaming Request Bodies documentation](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/capabilities/web-apis/fetch-streaming-requests#streaming_request_bodies)
* Step 7.5.(certificate dialog).1, skip ("no-traversable") unless we add an option for prompts.
* Step 15, skip (cookies)
* Step 16.2.1.2, we probably want to use the same realm as the fetch method. It's odd that it's implementation-defined in the spec. Can we change the spec?

## 5 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 24 July, 2025

### 5.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC [admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 6 Conclusion

The vice chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
 
 
