|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [13th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/136) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 04 September 2025                                                           |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casotano**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 7 August 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/134). The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the vice chair merged it.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/136), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the [Royalty-free patent policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/royalty-free-patent-policy-extension-option/), an extension of the Ecma [Code of Conduct in Patent Matters](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/code-of-conduct-in-patent-matters/)
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Does TC55 plan to attend W3C TPAC?
  * Are there any proposed breakout sessions?
  * Are there any proposed joint meetings?
* Consider finding a better schedule for these meetings
* Brainstorming HTTP server API
* Runtime keys

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Runtime Keys

**Ethan Arrowood** presented an [initial discussion](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23#issuecomment-3117468534) of how the committee will handle a Runtime Keys technical report. **Owen Buckley** brought up a concern that the existence of such a registry could lead to the opposite of the desired effect—harming interoperability if runtimes can distinguish themselves in this way. Further discussion compared a runtime keys registry to [Browserslist](https://browsersl.ist/), which has notably been a useful tool for developers without triggering a second browsers war.

The committee also discussed discoverability and dissemination strategy. Owen suggested making additions to npm and runtime documentation, Ethan volunteered to propose that change in the Node.js documentation.

**Andreu Botella** suggested pitching each package manager to provide information on all runtimes they support and offering that information as a search filter. He will add a comment or issue to the Runtime Keys repository to describe in further detail.
The committee is not familiar with the format of Technical Reports, a template will be supplied by the Secretary.

### 4.2 Conference attendance

#### 4.2.1 W3C TPAC

**Luca Casonato** made a call for who all may be attending TPAC to see if anyone was intending to plan for a breakout session or joint meeting with W3C or WHATWG attendees. **Andreu Botella** plans to attend and engage on some one-on-one conversations with representatives from the other SDOs, but will not be proposing a breakout session.

#### 4.2.2 Other events

**Ethan Arrowood** brought up an interest in putting together a list of events relevant to TC55 for the purpose of dissemination both in physical presence and giving talks.

#### 4.2.3 JSConf JP

**Andreu Botella** has proposed a TC55-related talk at JSConf JP in November.

### 4.3 HTTP Server API

Now that the Fetch API is approaching having been fully reviewed, **Luca Casonato** suggested that it may be time to start designing an HTTP server. The committee brainstormed potential necessary APIs in [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/137).

### 4.4 import.meta.url

**Owen Buckley** expressed a desire for Cloudflare to implement the API `import.meta.url` in workerd and brought it to the attention of the committee. The pros of such an implementation were discussed and may be revisited when a delegate from Cloudflare is able to attend a meeting.

## 5 Any other business

The chairs have heard from participants in the US West Coast and China that are unable to attend TC55 meetings due to its current scheduled time. They discussed attempting a rotating schedule, but decided that turnout would be too low at each session to warrant it. Luca Casonato will put together a Doodle poll.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 18 September 2025.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC [admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
 
