|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [14th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/140) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 18 September 2025                                                           |

|                |                                                                                                                                            |
|:---------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                              |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), James Snell (Cloudflare), Chris de Almeida (IBM), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert, HarperDB) |                                                                                                        |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                             |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of04 September 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/139) on GitHub. The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the chair merged it.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/140), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Continue discussion on HTTP server API: [\#137](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/137)
* Line-by-line review of the minimum common API spec in preparation for the October ExeCom and opt-out period

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Minimum Common API review

#### 4.1.1 Bibliography [Pull Request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/pull/94)

The committee reviewed the pull request introducing bibliographical references to individual WHATWG APIs in conformance with ISO and WHATWG referencing policies. The additions were noncontroversial, consensus was met and the PR was merged.

#### 4.1.2 ShadowRealm APIs

There was an open [pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/pull/83) for APIs exposed in ShadowRealms which should be included in the minimum common API. It already had three prior approvals, so consensus was reached to merge.

#### 4.1.3 MessageChannel, MessageEvent, MessagePort

**James Snell (Cloudflare)** had previously opened [a pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/pull/91) to include Messaging-related APIs in the minimum common API. The committee agreed to approve it pending a merge conflict resolution.

#### 4.1.4 Linting

**Chris de Almeida (IBM)** pointed out that the currently-open [linting pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/pull/92) would have caught a typo in the previous pull request. The committee decided to merge it to kick off a linting process on each new pull request.

#### 4.1.5 Normative prose

The committee reviewed the normative instructional text within the minimum common API for clarity and accuracy, and reviewed remaining TODOs within the text. For multiple different APIs, the committee discussed a concern that implementors are occasionally required to implement only one API on for a given interface (such as Navigator and Performance), but not the rest of the interface. [An issue was opened](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/96) for Navigator and the committee plans to revisit for future editions. The specification was updated to require globalThis.performance be an instance of the Performance interface.

The committee engaged in a discussion regarding how to permit Node.js’s current behaviour in regards to event handling on the global object without watering down requirements for future implementations. They settled on a non-normative note expounding on legacy behaviour and how to successfully conform with the expectations of the specification.

Editing of the performance extensions prose was challenging, James Snell took a TODO to work on the copy and bring changes back to the committee.

## 5 Any other business

Each participant in the committee will review the minimum common API document in full between meetings, in preparation of voting on a 1[^st] edition to send to the upcoming ExeCom.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 2 October, 2025.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.


