|                 |                                                                            |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [7th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/117) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                      |
| on:             | 15 May 2025                                                                |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Chris de Almeida (Open JS Foundation), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Ishat Gupta (ReMod Limited, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
 
## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, vice chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 01 May 2025

Notes from the meeting matching the distributed Microsoft Word Document had been made into a GitHub Pull Request and was reviewed and approved by the attendees of the meeting.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/117), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting ([Minutes of the 6th meeting of Ecma TC55, 01 May 2025 \#116](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/116)) (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda
* Continue WPT review:
  * Not sure if there's much else to discuss here, since we'd probably need to finish combing through the spec for both fetch and events before we can review those WPT
  * Maybe FormData, event loop tests and the js WPT folder
* Continue going through the fetch spec
  * HTTP-redirect fetch, starting on step 15
* Discuss possible new additions to the Minimum Common API:
  * Observable ([Requesting a position on the Observable API proposal-minimum-common-api\#72](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/72)). This was raised last year, and we didn't discuss it much, but Chrome is now shipping it.
  * Sanitizer API ([Sanitizer API proposal-minimum-common-api\#87](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/87)).

## 4 Discussions

## 4.1 WPT Review

Outcomes of today’s discussion can be seen on the [WPT analysis tracking issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/86#issuecomment-2884169434).

### 4.1.1 File Systems & FormData

There was some discussion about filesystem-related APIs. There is intentionally no way to read from the filesystem in the MCA, and there had been previous conversations about defining a filesystem layer on top of the MCA, perhaps including APIS from the [WHATWG FS standard](https://fs.spec.whatwg.org/) and the [File System Access spec](https://wicg.github.io/file-system-access).

In browsers, the `FormData` constructor takes two optional arguments which are HTML elements, which allow constructing a `FormData` from the current state of an HTML form. Server-side runtimes don't support HTML elements, but the exact behavior on whether they should support non-`undefined` arguments differs across existing runtimes. There's [a TODO to the Minimum Common API specification](https://min-common-api.proposal.wintertc.org/#issue-92f53c35) and [an issue in the MCA proposal](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/63) to discuss this more broadly.

**Andreu Botella** went through the FormData WPT tests [in this issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/86#issuecomment-2884169434), although for the `constructor.any.js` test, whether it should be included in the MCA test suite depends on the resolution of the aforementioned open issue about the constructor arguments.

### 4.1.2 Event loops

The MCA does not explicitly state that server-side runtimes need to have an event loop similar to that in browsers, but the spec machinery behind many of the APIs does. WPT has tests for the event loop and for running scripts as defined in the HTML spec. **Andreu Botella** will go through these tests and the event loop definition in the HTML spec in finer detail between meetings and bring them on a future agenda.

### 4.1.3 JS Specification Tests

There are a number of WPT tests in the `js` folder against the ECMAScript language itself, not just the Web Platform; **Andreu Botella** will research whether those were meant to be implemented in Test262, and whether they can be moved there.

## 4.2 Additions to Minimum Common API spec

### 4.2.1 Observable API

Last year **Dominic Farolino** [opened an issue about whether the Observable API would be part of the MCA](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/72). Chrome is now shipping Observable, so TC55 has run out of time to start making decisions about its place in the Minimum Common API. It’s a significant API to implement, similar to events in that other web platform features might build on it in the future. The committee had previously established that the MCA should be a superset of the APIs exposed in ShadowRealms, and Observables will be exposed there, which is a point in favor of adding it.

### 4.3 Sanitizer API

On the browser side, the Sanitizer API’s intended purpose is to prevent cross-site scripting vulnerabilities—making it clear to developers identifying “safe” and “unsafe” markup. It will work with ECMAScript TrustedTypes. It *may* be meaningful to developers working on server runtimes, but would require implementing DOM APIs, or at the very least an HTML parser. **Andreu Botella** discussed possibly including it in a level sitting on top of the Minimum Common API.

**Andreu Botella** & **Owen Buckley** will try to bring **J.S. Choi (invited expert)**, who had [opened the issue to consider it in the MCA](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/87), in to participate in a future meeting to discuss.

## 4.3 Continuing on review of Fetch API

The committee continued through the Fetch API, with **Andreu Botella** updating [the tracking issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2884343435). The review of HTTP-redirect was completed, and review of HTTP-network-or-cache was started, to be finished at a future meeting.

## 5 Any other business

The TC55 organization name has been updated to [WinterTC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/), and the website theme is being updated to align better with Ecma orange #fc7c00.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 29 May, 2025 at 16:30 CEST. This meeting overlaps with the TC39 plenary, however, so it might need to be cancelled depending on the TC39 scheduling.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The vice chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
 
 
