|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [11th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/128) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 24 July 2025                                                                |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), James Snell (Cloudflare), Chris de Almeida (Open JS Foundation), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Aki Rose Braun (Ecma International) |                                                                                                        |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                            |

## 1     Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella (Igalia)** vice-chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. This meeting was not recorded.

## 2     Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of10 July 2025

Notes from the meeting had been opened as a [GitHub pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/126). They were reviewed by the attendees of the meeting and merged by the vice-chair.

## 3     Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/128), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the Royalty-free patent policy
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Normatively referencing "living standards", some conclusions (5 min)
* A novel registry idea: the Ecma Technical Report (machine readable) ([slides](./Supporting%20Documents/2025-07-24%20technical%20report%20as%20registry.pdf)) (15 min)
* GitHub and website housekeeping (5 min)
* Continue going through the fetch spec (30m or more?)

## 4     Discussions

## 4.1     GitHub and Organisational housekeeping

### 4.1.1     Code of Conduct discussion

The committee addressed a need for an updated Code of Conduct, due to the current one being from W3C and fitting in specifically to a broader W3C organisational structure. The decision was made for **Aki Braun** to open [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/129) for further conversation between meetings. Participants are expected to contribute to that thread, and a CoC decision will be brought at a future meeting.

### 4.1.2     Contributing Guide

Another document requiring an update from committee participants is the CONTRIBUTING guide. The current document is written around a W3C Community Group context and no longer applies to the processes of TC55. Both **Andreu Botella** and **James Snell** expressed an interest in contributing to a re-write, with caveats both that they would not be able to prioritise that work for some weeks. **Aki Braun** opened [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/130) for tracking and to encourage commentary from all participants.

### 4.1.3     Other GitHub Admin content

**Aki Braun** proposed changes to remaining informational GitHub content requiring updated information, including archiving WinterCG content and re-writing documents such as README and LICENSE. A VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER. A [GitHub pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/131/) is available for review by any committee participant.

Additionally, content has been added to [the .github repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/.github/) that [merits review](https://github.com/WinterTC55/.github/issues/1) by the committee.

### 4.1.4     Normatively referencing Living Standards

There have been ongoing questions throughout multiple Ecma TCs, including TC55, regarding whether formal Ecma standards can normatively reference “Living Standards” which do not support being referenced as versioned or dated documents. **Aki Braun** presented research within Ecma TOOLS and the [ISO/IEC Directives](https://www.iso.org/sites/directives/current/part2/index.xhtml) has led to the conclusion that referencing Living Standards is acceptable in the scenario where the reference is to the entire document, and not individual clauses.

## 4.2     Runtime Keys registry as Ecma Technical Report

At the 10th meeting of TC55 on 10 July 2025, Ecma Secretary General **Samina Husain** suggested the possibility of publishing Runtime Keys as an Ecma Technical Report, to operate as a registry-like tool for developers and users to reference. **Aki Braun** presented a way forward with utilising a Technical Report while also generating usable machine-readable data. This suggestion has been offered to the participants in the proposal [via a GitHub Issue comment](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23#issuecomment-3113814659) by **James Snell**.

## 4.3     Fetch specification review (continued)

**Andreu Botella** [resumed review](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-3113861252) of the [Fetch Specification](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#cors-preflight-fetch), CORS and TAO (sections 4.7-4.10). The committee determined that sections 4.7 (CORS-preflight fetch), 4.8 (CORS-preflight cache), 4.9 (CORS check) and 4.10 (TAO check) are not relevant because of origins.

## 5     Any other business

The secretary looks forward to participation in the various linked GitHub Issues before the next TC55 meeting.

## 6     Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 07 August 2025.

## 6.1     Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7     Conclusion

The vice-chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
