|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [15th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/142) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 02 October 2025                                                             |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno Land, Inc), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno Land, Inc), Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), Chris de Almeida (IBM), Ethan Arrowood (Harper DB / Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Yuto Yoshino (Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 18 September 2025

The committee did not have access to the minutes from last meeting, and were unable to approve them. They plan to approve them along with these minutes at their next meeting.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on ***the meeting’s associated GitHub issue***, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Introductions for the benefit of new participants
* New meetings schedule ([New meeting schedule \#141](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/141))
* New logo with ECMA branding discussion
* Final overview of the Minimum Common API before sending it to the ExeCom
* HTTP server API

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 New meetings schedule

The committee reviewed a previously-circulated Doodle poll to decide on the best time to hold their regular meetings given the schedules of the most frequent attendees. The committee decided to continue meeting fortnightly, but on Fridays at 16.00 CEST.

## 4.2 Ecma branding

The committee discussed the upcoming TC logo guidelines. Most who spoke up held a strong preference to the WinterTC logo in Ecma orange on a field of white, but were open to considering a black logo on a field of orange. Given their resistance to change, Secretary Aki Braun suggested they wait until after the ExeCom to make any final decisions.

## 4.3 Final Minimum common web API review

In preparation for submitting it to the upcoming Executive Committee meeting, the committee began final reviews for the minimum common web API specification to ensure its readiness. First, they reviewed the pull request from the previous meeting, including minor changes from the interim.

After the pull request was merged, the chair read through the entire body of the document for comment. **Andreu Botella (Igalia)** and **Chris de Almeida (IBM)** requested a change from a shall to a should within the introduction to the Common API Index section, which expressly states that conforming environments have implementation choices.

The committee observed that several APIs are implemented on both the Window scope as well as the WorkerGlobalScope, and made minor edits to clarify implementation. Similarly, Clause 4 (The Global Scope)’s introduction copy was updated to remove `Worker`. The committee intends to more carefully define Workers in subsequent editions.

Further editing of the specification focussed on reducing ambiguity, such as modifying “need not” into “are not required to”.

# 5 Any other business

The committee reached consensus on approving the first edition of the Minimum common web API specification, which will now be frozen for the appropriate opt out period and presented to the ExeCom for approval.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 17 October.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
