|                 |                                                                                                                                                                |
|:----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Minutes of the: |                                                                                                                                       5th meeting of Ecma TC55 |
| held in:        |                                                                                                                                          Google Meet (virtual) |
| on:             |                                                                                                                                                  03 April 2025 |
| Chairs:         |                                                                                                                  Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia) |
| Attendees:      | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert) |
| Secretary:      |                                                                                                                                 Aki Braun (Ecma International) |
 
## 1     Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, vice chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2     Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of20 March 2025

The [pull request](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/pull/110) of the minutes from the 4th meeting of TC55 were acknowledged and approved.

## 3   Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on **[the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/111)**, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Continue WPT review
  * `DOMException`
  * `Event`
  * `EventTarget`
* `Fetch`-related APIs (`Header`, `Request`, `Response`)
* WASM
* `globalThis`: `navigator`, `performance.now` `queueMicrotasks`, `setInterval`/`setTimeout`, `structuredClone`, `atob`/`btoa`

## 4     Discussions

### 4.1 Web Platform Test review

Andreu Botella picked up the WPT review where Luca Casonato left off at the 4th meeting of TC55. Andreu, with the support of the attendees, concluded that this review was best facilitated by Luca, who has been doing the bulk of the work between meetings.

### 4.2 Fetch Specification review

The committee continued on working through aspects of Fetch which will or will not be implemented by server-side runtimes.

#### 4.2.1 HTTP Extensions Headers (continued from previous meetings)

* MIME type and sniffing—the nosniff and MIME type restrictions in the fetch spec for browsers should not have any impact on a server-side implementation of the `fetch` API, since it only happens for script-like destinations, but it could affect module loading
* `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy` is not relevant to a server environment and will be ignored
* Sec-Purpose header is related to browser prefetch and will be ignored
 
#### 4.2.2 Accept Headers

* The handling of the `Accept-Language` header in the spec's "fetch" algorithm does not depend on the request's `destination` field, which seems unexpected. This implies a call to the fetch API sets that header in the browser. We don't want to require this for server-side runtimes, since some might not have any relevant current human language.
 
#### 4.2.3 Main Fetch Algorithm

Andreu added [a comment](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2776237976) to [the tracking issue](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1) on the [fetch-workstream](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/) repo to summarize review of the “main” fetch algorithm. There are some open issues such as figuring out what exactly to do about HSTS and HTTPS redirection, or what spec changes would be needed to avoid CORS blocking. An important open issue which is security-related is blocking “bad” ports, which is addressed in [a sub-issue](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/10) on the repo.

The "main fetch" and "fetch response handover" algorithms also have steps related to [resource timing](https://w3c.github.io/resource-timing) and [navigation timing](https://www.w3.org/TR/navigation-timing/). This is exposed as part of the `performance` API, but is not contained in the subset of it that the Minimum Common API exposes. It was discussed that servers would not *need* to implement this, but they may wish to. This is also noted in [the comment on the tracking issue](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2776237976) opened during the meeting.

## 5     Any other business

The next TC55 meeting conflicts with the next TC39 meeting. There is enough overlap in the two committees that it may be too difficult to do both. There is [an open GitHub issue](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/109) to discuss.

## 6     Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 16 April, see §5.

### 6.1     Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC [admin repo](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7     Conclusion

The vice-chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
