|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [16th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/144) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 17 October 2025                                                             |

|                |                                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                   |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                  |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar. Participants were also reminded of [Ecma’s IPR policies](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/).

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 02 October 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, TC55 minutes are published as a pull request on GitHub. The committee discussed reviewing the minutes of recent meetings ([14th](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/143), [15th](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/145)), and decided to defer formal approval until the following meeting which is expected to have greater confirmed attendance.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/144), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* CoC, contributing guide, etc... (10 min)
* Next steps for the Minimum Common API (test suite, 2026 edition...) (15 min)
* Continuing to work on the fetch workstream
  * [WHATWG IPR considerations fetch-workstream\#11](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/11) (10 min)
  * [Standardize fetch calls to file: URLs fetch-workstream\#12](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/12) (15 min)

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Code of Conduct, contributing guide, etc

#### 4.1.1 Code of Conduct enforcement

The committee discussed choosing a code of conduct, and how to provide reporting and enforcement. The chairs decided they would handle code of conduct issues unrelated to concerns regarding their own behaviour. For any concerns regarding the chairs, reporters can approach the secretary (Aki Braun) for triage, who will find the most appropriate person to resolve any issues.

#### 4.1.2 Code of Conduct selection

The committee reviewed the TC39 code of conduct in its entirety, and selected to base their code of conduct on it. Vice chair **Andreu Botella (Igalia)** volunteered to handle any relevant edits and open a pull request. The committee will review the PR at its next meeting.

#### 4.1.3 Contributing guide

Andreu Botella provided a list of content for a contributing guide, including bikeshed usage, IPR policies, and Ecma membership (or Invited Expert recognition). Upon agreement, Andreu began work on a pull request to add such a guide to all TC55 repositories on GitHub.

### 4.2 Next steps for the Minimum Common API

The Minimum common web platform API specification has been accepted by the ExeCom for review and will be presented to the Ecma GA in December, 2025. The committee briefly covered some purely editorial changes (formatting improvements) before moving on to a beginning a [2026 roadmap](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/106) for prioritization.

### 4.3 WHATWG IPR considerations

During the ExeCom, some individuals involved with both WHATWG and Ecma International brought up IPR concerns regarding any work TC55 does that they wish to upstream to WHATWG—for example related to the Fetch API. Andreu Botella [opened an issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/11) to ensure that the committee was keeping decision-making records and individuals/companies were signing contribution agreements where appropriate.

Thanks to the thoroughness of Andreu’s issue and outreach to participants, the committee concluded that a general policy of proactiveness was constructive, but further action beyond that issue wasn’t likely to be necessary.

### 4.4 Standardize fetch calls to `file:` URLs

The chairs added a plan to the Minimum common web platform API roadmap to define ESM integration which included local file imports and fetch interaction, but did not go into any further detail regarding fetch’s handling of file URLs.

## 5 Any other business

The time of the next meeting will be after European summer time is concluded, but before USA daylight saving time is over. The committee is reminded to take note—TC55 meetings take place at 16:00 central European time.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 31 October, 2025 at 16:00 CET

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
 
 
