|                 |                                                                            |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [9th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/122) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                      |
| on:             | 26 June 2025                                                               |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Chris de Almeida (OpenJS Foundation), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |                                                                                                        |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato (Deno)**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 12 June 2025

The minutes were reviewed and the associated [GitHub pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/121) was merged.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on *[the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/122)*, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting ([Minutes of 8th meeting, 12 June 2025 \#121](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/121))
* Approval of this meeting's agenda
* Plan for releasing a first yearly snapshot of the Minimum Common API by the end of the year
* Discussion about whether WPT testharness needs changes for server-side runtimes
* Continue going through the fetch spec
* Discussion of [WinterTC55/runtime-keys\#23 (comment)](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23#issuecomment-3001127567)

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Runtime Keys registry at IANA

There is a [comment on a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23#issuecomment-3001127567) regarding registration policy for a Runtime Keys registry at IANA. **Ethan Arrowood** reviewed all of the options, and presented what he had determined were the best two—either providing any key available on a first-come first-served basis (provided the registration contact provide basic evidence of relation to the key) or Expert Review, which would provide more discretion from committee members to prevent basic or universal terms from being registered by business interests. Ethan arrived in favor of the expert review process, specifically to prevent a scenario where a specific product registers a generic term. **Luca Casonato** supported this approach; **Andreu Botella** supported it provided the committee produce documentation for their motivations.

### 4.2 Standard publication schedule

#### 4.2.1 Minimum Common API

TC55 still plans to publish the first version of the Minimum Common API specification as a standard at the December Ecma GA (including a 60-day opt-out period ahead of that GA). The committee recognizes that they have set themselves an ambitious goal, and feel confident they can achieve it.

**Luca Casonato** brought the questions to the committee:

* Is the draft Minimum Common API at a satisfactory in terms of content and prose place to move forward?
* Should the fetch API be included despite the fact that the required changes have not been upstreamed yet?

**Owen Buckley** brought up the option of releasing “levels” or “snapshots” of the MCI specification for the purpose of providing direction to implementors before final standards are complete.

#### 4.2.2 Sockets API

The Sockets API specification has not been updated for approximately two years, but the Cloudflare Workers API that it aimed to standardize is believed to have changed in the intervening time. **Luca Casonato** will engage with **James Snell (Cloudflare)** to get an update. The committee discussed a release schedule for the specification and decided it does not have the same annual release plan as the Minimum Common API. It will get standardised this year or later, once it is appropriately stable.

#### 4.2.3 Normatively referencing “living standards”

TC55, like multiple other TCs and TGs within Ecma, is trying to solve the problem of normatively referencing unversioned documents known as “living standards”. The committee discussed how best to work around a lack of formal versions in, for example, WHATWG’s Fetch API specification. **Ethan Arrowood** suggested defining the versioned *test suite* as the normative target, with the specification providing direction on what an implementation must do in order to reach that goal.

### 4.3 Web Platform Tests testharness

The WPT testharness has several test environments, or “modes” of running it, such as browsers and workers. There is a non-browser mode, `ShellTestEnvironment`, but it does not appear to be sufficient for server runtimes. It does not handle uncaught exceptions. `ShellTestEnvironment` would require significant patching in order to be the right target for server-side runtimes attempting to implement the minimum common API without also implementing `window`, `document`, and `Worker`.

Andreu Botella will investigate further with WPT and create a tracking issue.

### 4.4 Fetch specification review

The committee continued its review of the WHATWG Fetch API specification for inclusion in the minimum common API. They picked up mid-“HTTP-network-or-cache fetch”, and updated [the tracking issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-3008941467) with their progress.

## 5 Any other business

Ethan Arrowood has had a talk accepted to JS Conf North America to discuss web interoperability. His goal is to make the talk more open source inclusive than a basic “what is WinterTC doing” update, including explaining the Invited Expert process and upgrading to Ecma Member.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 10 July 2025. The secretary will not be present, the chairs will take responsibility for producing the minutes.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
