Minutes of the: 2nd meeting of Ecma TC55
held in: Google Meet (virtual)
on: 20 February 2025

**Chairs:** Luca Casotano (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)

**Attendees:**Andreu Botella (Igalia), Luca Casonato (Deno), James Snell (Cloudflare), Elias Sjögreen (Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Owen Buckley, Kami Roselite

**Secretary:**  Aki Braun (Ecma International)

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casotano**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 06 February 2025

The minutes were not yet published, but notes from the meeting had been made into GitHub issues reviewed by the attendees of the meeting.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on the meeting’s associated GitHub issue, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

- Continuation: Figuring out what is needed in fetch: what parts need changes / do not apply?

- Minimum common API next steps

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 (continuance) Fetch headers implementation

The committee is actively exploring how to handle irrelevant headers in server-side fetch, and in specific identifying scenarios where it makes sense to log a warning, throw an error, or silently drop the headers. **Ethan Arrowood** expressed a preference for allowing implementations to make those decisions outside of security-specific headers.

**Luca Casotano** brought up the scenario of using request objects to generate new request objects, and how silently dropping unused headers could cause unexpected behaviour for developers. **Owen Buckley** suggested keeping this piece of the specification flexible, as this is expected to be an evolving concern**.**The committee discussed producing type definitions & JSDoc to provide a little more clarity to end developers.

Delegates from **Cloudflare** and **Deno Land Inc** compared their implementations and design decisions across request init and request response, including pitfalls they’d discovered and possible better strategies.

GitHub Issues were created for the headers discussed throughout the meeting, with intended behaviour for each by implementors. They’re available at [wintercg/fetch-workstream#6](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/6) and [wintercg/fetch-workstream#5](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/5).

## 4.2 Minimum Common API next steps

**James Snell** brought to the committee the need to define next steps for the Minimum Common API workstream. **Luca Casonato** narrowed in on the need to figure out what compliance actually means, including which subset of web platform tests need to pass. The committee affirmed its intent to publish a standard in 2025.

### 4.2.1 Normative references to living standards

**Andreu Botella** brought up a concern regarding normative references to living standards, after witnessing the Source maps specification encounter some hurdles referencing specifications at W3C and WHATWG. The committee will continue to explore this and refer specific questions to the Ecma Secretariat.

### 4.2.2 Document formatting

The document formatting software the committee has been working with for several years, Bikeshed, does not have an Ecma- and ISO-compliant template for publication. After some discussion weighing pros and cons, **Aki Braun** will run an experimental PDF conversion to get a concept of the distance between where the document is now and where it needs to be for publication. In the future, TC55 may continue to use Bikeshed, or may move to using ecmarkup.

# 5 Any other business

The committee plans to continue discussing fetch at the next meeting, including connection pooling and cache partitions. The agenda for the next meeting was updated accordingly.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 06 March, 2025 at 16:30 CET and is expected to last for 60 minutes.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.