|                 |                                                                           |
|:----------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [1st meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/93) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                     |
| on:             | 06 February 2025                                                          |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Luca Casonato (Deno), James Snell (Cloudflare), Lino Le Van (Chic, Invited Expert), Pooya Parsa (Nuxtlabs, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International) |                                                                                                        |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |


# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. The meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini.

# 2 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on the meeting’s associated GitHub issue, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

1. Progress on the WinterTC formation process (including discussing the GitHub organization name)
2. Figuring out what is needed in fetch: what parts need changes / do not apply?
3. What are the next steps for the Socket API. How do we proceed?

# 3 Discussions

## 3.1 Winter TC Formation Progress Update:

**Andreu Botella** has set up the onboarding template in GitHub and will be working to improve onboarding automation for the chairs. **Aki Braun** will provide a program that chairs can run to add new participants to the appropriate GitHub teams.

WinterTC’s domains have been having a redirect issue, the are expected to resolve by the weekend.

Neither WinterTC nor TC55 are available team usernames in GitHub. The TC will choose a username at a later date.

## 3.2 Socket API Next Steps

**Cloudflare** has had the Socket API in production for some time, and it appears to be stable. **Luca Casonato** reported that **Deno** requires an explicit handshake method. The committed will explore TLS-related options, Luca will open issues for these points.

## 3.3 Fetch Spec Review

**Luca Casonato** began a review of the WHATWG Fetch Specification section-by-section for WinterTC to audit which portions will need to be included in the TC55’s specification. This includes determining which scenarios should throw vs failing silently to maximise compatibility.

- Handling of CORS-unsafe headers
  - investigate safelisted headers for inbound/outbound
- Request object headers
  - Will not allow accept-encoding by default
  - keep-alive and transfer-encoding will be handled by HTTP
  - Trailers will be stripped as there’s no API to read them
  - Upgrade will be stripped, there’s no API
  - Cookie jar-related headers will be allowed
- Automatic response body decompression is fetch default behaviour will require further research into what’s allowed in the spec
  - **James Snell** will explore automatic decompression edge cases.
- content-length to be ignored for static request bodies
  - Server-side fetch will ignore user-generated content length headers for static requests where the host knows the content size, and override with the correct length.
  - Consideration will be given on streams in the future, including whether to ignore or throw when there’s a disparity
- response body
- content encoding headers
- downstream proxies
- stream content-length
- content-length

### 3.3.1 Early Hints and Interim Responses

The committee acknowledged that there will need to be support for early hints and interim responses in the fetch API, though specifying will be complex. [An issue has been created upstream](https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/issues/1716) and the new APIs will be discussed in a future meeting.

### 3.3.2 Request Bodies from Async Iterables

Consistent with WHATWG’s specification, async iterables will need to be supported as request bodies. **James Snell** brought up the potential memory issues with readablestream.tee() (see [whatwg/streams#1235](https://github.com/whatwg/streams/issues/1235)). The committee will need to decide whether to specify this behaviour or leave it to runtime implementations.

### 3.8 `init` properties in request object

Much of the fields in init request/response objects are irrelevant for server-side fetch, and will be ignored. They will no longer throw an error. Some properties, such as `cache` and `integrity`, may be addressed at a later date.

### 3.9 Frontloading publication responsibilities

Andreu will begin work on an Ecma-branded Bikeshed template so Aki can generate the PDF as soon as possible after approval.

# 4 Any other business

**Organization Name:** Discussed GitHub team name—WinterTC is in use and GitHub will not take that from the user. TC55 is also taken. Discussed ecmawintertc, tc55ecma, and others. A decision will be made at a later meeting.

# 5 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly.

## 5.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity. Specific strategy for publishing notes is not yet decided.

# 6 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.