|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [17th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/152) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 12 December 2025                                                            |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|:---------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Chris de Almeida (IBM), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Jacob Smith (OpenJS Foundation), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Thomas Ballinger (Invited Expert), Jean Burellier (OpenJS Foundation) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                          |

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, vice chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar. Participants were also reminded of [Ecmaâ€™s IPR policies](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/).

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 02 October 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/147) on GitHub. The committee confirmed theyâ€™d reviewed the PR and the vice chair will merge it.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on **[the meetingâ€™s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/152)**, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
    * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the Royalty-free patent policy, an extension of the Ecma Code of Conduct in Patent Matters
    * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* News: The 1st edition of the Minimum common web API is now approved by the ECMA GA as ECMA-429 ðŸŽ‰ (5 mins?)
* Reviewing editorial changes to the spec since the last time we reviewed it in a WinterTC meeting (20 mins?)
* TypeScript config for minimum common API ([WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api#31](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issue/31))
* Runtime Keys ([WinterTC55/runtime-keys#23](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23))

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Announcement of publication of ECMA-429

Vice chair **Andreu Botella** reviewed the PDF version of ECMA-429 with the committee. There were no normative changes, but some significant formatting was done of the original bikeshed output for readability. Andreu encouraged any further comments for future editions of the PDF be submitted via issues on GitHub

### 4.2 TypeScript config for minimum common API

**Owen Buckley** presented [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issue/31) regarding producing TypeScript definitions for Minimum common web API conformance. This would require providing e.g. a library while also supporting TypeScript configurations that can distinguish between server-side and client-side code. **Jacob Smith** supported this as an achievable goal. Owen recommended doing this work with a two-step approach of initially compiling together the type definitions, and only then focus on exactly how to roll them out to the broader ecosystem.

Potential concerns included **Thomas Ballinger** discussing name collision regarding APIs that are, by definition, available in multiple places and **Ethan Arrowood** pointing out that the whole purpose was that code could be run in multiple environments. Ethan suggested importing the existing web APIs type definitions and solely referencing Minimum common web APIs.

Ultimately, the committee concluded that any types would be most appropriately included within runtimes, not user code. **Jacob Smith** will attempt to connect the committee with someone from the TypeScript or DefinitelyTyped teams.

### 4.3 Runtime Keys

**Thomas Ballinger** wants to add a runtime key for his companyâ€™s JavaScript runtime Convex and wants more information on how the runtime keys registry works. **Ethan Arrowood** acknowledged that addition and expressed a willingness to merge a PR. Then Ethan gave a quick rundown of what guidance the committee expects to provide regarding the registry. In the new year Ethan and the secretary Aki Braun will address [the current GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23) and collaborate on producing an Ecma technical report that acts as a stable document as well as a machine-readable source.

## 5 Any other business

There was no other business.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 09 January 2026.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The vice chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
 
 
