|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [12th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/133) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 07 August 2025                                                              |

|                |                                                                                                                      |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                        |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                       |


## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 24 July 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as a pull request on GitHub. The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the vice chair merged it.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/133), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting
* Approval of this meeting's agenda
* Review of Ecma IPR policy
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the [Royalty-free patent policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/royalty-free-patent-policy-extension-option/), an extension of the Ecma [Code of Conduct in Patent Matters](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/code-of-conduct-in-patent-matters/)
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Admin repo copy review ([Copy updates for TC55 \#131](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/131))
* GitHub repo copy review ([Copy review .github\#1](https://github.com/WinterTC55/.github/issues/1))
* Choosing a Code of Conduct ([WinterTC needs to choose a Code of Conduct \#129](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/129))
* Writing a Contributing guide ([WinterTC needs a Contributing guide \#130](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/130))
* Runtime keys

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Admin repo copy review ([WinterTC55/admin\#131](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/131))

Vice chair **Andreu Botella** led discussion through the open pull request on the admin repo updating meta and organisational copy, including archiving various W3C and WinterCG document. The committee made a few corrections and Andreu opened a review.

### 4.2 “.github” repo copy review ([WinterTC55/.github\#1](https://github.com/WinterTC55/.github/issues/1))

**Andreu Botella** led discussion through the copy committed to the “.github” repo, including templates and org-wide README. The committee had no changes to request, and will leave the issue open for another 2-4 weeks for other participants to review.

### 4.3 Choosing a Code of Conduct ([WinterTC/admin\#129](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/129))

**Andreu Botella** read key portions of the TC39 code of conduct to explore whether that was the appropriate document for TC55 to elect and modify. For right now, the issue will remain open. The committee will leave this issue open for a bit more time to allow the committee to discuss further.

### 4.4 Writing a Contributing guide ([WinterTC/admin\#130](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/130))

The committee may need some guidance on coming up with a contributing document, as there will be patent and copyright licensing explanations. Aki Rose Braun provided additional guidance on how those things apply to an RFTC. **Andreu Botella** will work on an initial draft in September.

### 4.5 Runtime keys as a Technical Report ([WinterTC55/runtime-keys\#23](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23))

The committee discussed **Aki Rose Braun**’s [comment](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23#issuecomment-3117468534) on the “Future of Runtime Keys” issue regarding producing a Technical Report to maintain a registry, and agreed it was the direction they wished to explore. **Ethan Arrowood** will begin drafting a document expressing the intended process for producing and adding to that Technical Report.

## 5 Any other business

**Andreu Botella** informed the committee they would be on holiday for the next meeting, and that they would enquire whether **Luca Casonato** or **James Snell** would be able to chair.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings is not yet scheduled due to an uncertainty over attendance and quorum. It will be announced on the committee’s GitHub Issues ahead of time.

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
