|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [19th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/162) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 06 February 2026                                                            |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Chris de Almeida (Open JS Foundation), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Jacob Smith (OpenJS Foundation), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Filip Skokan (Invited Expert), Ishat Gupta (Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of _09 January 2026_

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/161/changes). The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the vice chair merged it.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/162), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
    * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the Royalty-free patent policy, an extension of the Ecma Code of Conduct in Patent Matters
    * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
*   TC55 2026 chair election (2 min)
*   Runtime keys (10 min)
*   HTTP server API (40 min)

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 Runtime keys

**Ethan Arrowood** presented the draft Runtime Keys technical report as a [pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/pull/30) on GitHub. He discussed the structure of the document, and the preexisting runtime keys that will be included in the first edition. There has been some discussion about specificity and uniqueness not just of keys, but of names as well. The TR will include guidance around these fields.

Ethan plans to have any current and future PRs into the aforementioned draft PR merged before the next TC55 meeting, and encouraged any participant to make their edits and comments.

## 4.2 HTTP Server API

**Luca Casonato** reviewed last [September’s HTTP Server API brainstorm](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/1) notes. The driving idea would be to produce a specification for an HTTP request/response handler that would provide functionality for upgrades, proxying, cookies, caching, streaming, request-related metadata (whether or not it belongs to the request object), and middlewares. The goal of this specification would be a standardised signature across runtimes that libraries could utilise without needing to write runtime-specific logic.

A follow-on goal to producing a reliable interface would be specifying how runtimes start and run servers with some consistent set of options and behaviours. The brainstorm from September included Node.js web-server-frameworks as prior art. **Ethan Arrowood** commented that he was on the early calls for that project and its primary motivation was performance, not interoperability. Ultimately energy fizzled when the Node.js team discovered that most current HTTP server libraries do not use the existing Node.js HTTP server, but rather have built their own from lower-level APIs. Ethan pointed out that despite the common goal of “serverless” deploys, HTTP servers are just too complex for such a thing to be managed by a single handler function.

The group did agree that it was still worth exploring consistency of the signature of this specific functionality. They then spent the remainder of the meeting [brainstorming what metadata would be meaningful](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/2) and practical on the request object and [what a request handler signature should look like](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/3). In future meetings they will discuss what a specification around those brainstorms should look like.

# 5 Any other business

There will be a chair election at the next meeting. Any delegate wishing to nominate themselves for the role should [open an issue in GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/165). The committee expressed a desire to operate with a chair group of two, instead of a Chair and Vice Chair. The secretary will notify the SG and report back.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 20 February, 2026.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via [GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/), and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
