|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [24th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/177) |
| held in:        | Zoom Teleconference                                                         |
| on:             | 16 April 2026                                                               |

| **Chairs:**    | Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.)                                                                                                                                           |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), Jean Burellier (OpenJS Foundation), Chris de Almeida (OpenJS Foundation), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Samina Husain (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                      |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

Andreu Botella, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Zoom for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 03 April 2026

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as a [pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/176) on GitHub. The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the chair merged it.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/177), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the [Royalty-free patent policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/royalty-free-patent-policy-extension-option/), an extension of the Ecma [Code of Conduct in Patent Matters](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/code-of-conduct-in-patent-matters/)
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Chair election (10 min?)
* Runtime keys (10 min?)
* Package maps ([\#173](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/173))

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 Runtime Keys draft Technical Report

(editorial) Ethan Arrowood requested assistance with the build pipeline, which appears to have failed. Otherwise, the document is ready for review from the committee. Andreu & Owen support pursuing some sort of preview build not just for Runtime Keys, but for any spec-related GitHub repos.

### 4.1.1 Open runtime PRs

There are several open PRs for runtimes from the past two years. In the past, the committee had planned to add those runtimes to the Report after it was completed and approved. Due to the fact that the Report will now be submitted to the GA as soon as it is approved by the committee, Ethan suggested that those PRs be merged as before submission.

### 4.1.2 TR submission to the GA

Andreu Botella expressed a desire for the TR to be submitted to the June 2026 Ecma GA. Samina explained that the document will require a 60-day freeze for the GA to review approval. In order to kick this process off, the committee will need consensus to approve the TR. The committee decided to plan for a [special meeting](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/182) on 28 April in order to approve the Report before the deadline of 29 April.

## 4.2 Package maps

Owen brought the open [package maps issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/173) up to encourage the committee to engage actively. Currently, it’s a suggestion from non-members and would need a delegate to own any further technical work.

There is an [open question in Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/62239) of whether package maps could complement or conflict with [WHATWG’s import map](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#import-maps) feature.

Andreu supported this as a potential feature to be standardized by TC55, but suggested deferring a conversation about implementation until Deno has a new delegate joining TC55. Additionally, Andreu will reach out to Cloudflare to encourage their attendance specifically to discuss this topic.

# 5 Any other business

The chair election is deferred until the next regularly-scheduled meeting.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Zoom video calls fortnightly. There is a special meeting scheduled for 28 April, 2026. The next regularly-scheduled meeting is currently 15 May, which may conflict with delegate travel for TC39. Meeting scheduling will be discussed in Matrix and GitHub.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC [admin repo](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/), and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
