|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [18th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/153) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 09 January 2026                                                             |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                           |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Dean Srebnik (Invited Expert), Trayambak Rai Rai (Invited Expert), Thomas Ballinger (Invited Expert), Samina Husain (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                          |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casotano**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 12 December 2025

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/154) on GitHub. The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the chair announced an intent to merge.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/153), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of the [notes for last meeting](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/154) (5 min)
* Approval of [this meeting's agenda](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/153) (2 min)
* Review of [Ecma IPR policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/) (1 min)
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under [the Royalty-free patent policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/royalty-free-patent-policy-extension-option/), an extension of the [Ecma Code of Conduct in Patent Matters](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/code-of-conduct-in-patent-matters/)
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* 2026 roadmap (2026 edition roadmap [proposal-minimum-common-api\#106](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/106))
* WPT subset (WPT analysis [proposal-minimum-common-api\#86](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/86))
* HTTP server API
* Runtime Keys [WinterTC55/runtime-keys\#23](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/issues/23)

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 2026 Minimum common API roadmap

### 4.1.1 Exposing global items without Window interface

The chairs shared a link to the 2026 roadmap, and Andreu Botella announced that the first item on the list—exposing items on global object without Window interface—was already resolved as a note in the 2025 edition of the standard during last-minute fixes in response to comments.

### 4.1.2 FormData constructor in non-DOM runtimes

The FormData constructor accepts two *optional* HTML elements, as Andreu explained the specification in the future should detail just how runtimes without HTML elements should handle those optional parameters. Currently, WebIDL does define the desired behaviour, but no runtimes implement it.

### 4.1.3 Defining ESM support

Due to ECMA-262’s deference to hosts to define ESM import behaviour, and HTML’s more explicit definition, allowing for runtimes to define their own module loading is challenging. Ultimately this may come down to another case of needing to upstream changes to the Fetch specification specifically for the currently undefined file URL.

Due to the fact that no runtimes currently implement module loading via HTTP(S), Luca Casonato suggested that TC55 focus on file, blob, and data URLs. In particular, resolution behaviour may be a better target for TC55’s standardisation efforts.

## 4.2 WPT test subset

The committee continues to chip away at compiling a list of the Web Platform tests that a runtime should pass in order to be considered compliant with the Minimum common web API specification. Delegates from Igalia recently submitted a [list of Web Platform Tests](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/86#issuecomment-3656272912) previously identified as candidates for measuring minimum common API compliance which cannot accurately test a non-browser’s codebase.

A scant few of the encoding-related tests could be run if they were changed, but most require a browser. The URL tests require the ability to create an anchor html element.

Any future publication, formal or informal, which identifies web platform tests required for minimum common API compliance will need each and every test to be audited for the ability to run in a non-browser runtime.

The committee will investigate the source of wpt.fyi to see how much work it would take to isolate specific tests into one view, and will reach out to the developers for potential collaboration.

Andreu is taking as an action item to speak with Node.js regarding the web platform tests they have patched to test globalThis, to investigate if any of that patching originally done for internal use can be reused on a broader test harness.

Next steps include:

* Making a pair of lists—one list of which tests to run, and another list of tests expected to fail.
* Contacting wpt.fyi to create a min common API filter

The committee will discuss commitments in a future meeting.

## 4.3 Runtime keys

The group contributing to runtime keys needs guidance from Ecma on what is expected to take a json object to a technical report. Aki Braun will follow up with Ethan Arrowood on how to accomplish that task.

# 5 Any other business

There was no further business.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 06 February 2026.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/153) in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.


