|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [22nd meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/169) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 20 March 2026                                                               |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato Luca Casonato (Deno Land, Inc), Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), James M Snell (Cloudflare), Jacob Smith (OpenJS Foundation), Chris de Almeida (OpenJS Foundation), Owen Buckley (invited expert), Ishat Gupta (invited expert), Samina Husain (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Samina Husain (Ecma International), Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

# 1	Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, co-chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2	Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 06 February 2026

This meeting was scheduled before the previous minutes could be prepared, so there were no minutes to approve.

# 3	Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/169), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* CLI API (20 min)
* HTTP server (20 min)
* Stream iterators (https://stream-iter.jasnell.me/) (15 min)

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 CLI API

The CLI API proposal was not distributed ahead of the meeting and as a result discussion was deferred.

## 4.2 HTTP server

HTTP server discussion was deferred in deference to focussing on the Iterable Streams proposal.

## 4.3 Stream Iterators

**James Snell** presented his [Iterable Streams API proposal](https://stream-iter.jasnell.me/). The motivation is providing a more optimisable observable stream. There is a reference implementation as well as in-progress implementations in Node.js and Cloudflare Workers. **Luca Casonato** was interested in how the proposal fit in with the existing platform, for example how it interacts with Fetch. James explained that Iterable Streams would be implemented *alongside* the existing interfaces. The primary reference implementation is available at [jasnell/new-streams](https://github.com/jasnell/new-streams) and the Node.js implementation is an open PR at [nodejs/node\#62066](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/62066).

Luca Casonato inquired as to James’s expectations around whether browsers would implement this API (probably not) and what interop might look like in that case. James suggested that this was intended to primarily be an optimisation path, and that several use cases of interop would be between trivial and doable to implement.

**Andreu Botella** confirmed that these optimisation paths generally would be implementation-defined and not specification-defined. James concurred, and provided examples where such functionality may be implemented.

Luca Casonato next asked whether or how this API prevented uncooperative consumers to accidentally share a readable stream, which James pointed out was a broader question about iterators in ECMAScript in general. James plans to open a new proposal in TC39 to add an exclusive primitive for iterators to transfer iterator state ownership to another object. This led to a lengthy discussion about access, transfer, and where locks belong (iterators versus iterables) that left the committee. There is a lot of agreement about where it is imperfect, but limited confidence in the best way to resolve.

James closed with a request for feedback on whether or not TC55 was the right venue for this proposal. Andreu was of the opinion that while it is unlikely that browsers will adopt this API, WinterTC may be a good place to iterate on the proposal while it finds a better home. Luca wasn’t entirely in agreement in that he felt it may be worth the effort to bring browsers on-board. This would require a convincing interoperability narrative, but could end up with benefitting the entire ecosystem. **Jacob Smith** was supportive of continuing to explore Iterable Streams in TC55 regardless of the long-term outlook of browser adoption.
The committee ended the topic by deciding to move the proposal repository into the WinterTC55 GitHub org.

# 5 Any other business

Luca announced that he would be leaving Deno, and is currently on garden leave until 01 May. The committee will be seeking a replacement for his position as chair, and hopes he will consider continuing to contribute an invited expert.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 03 April, joining information can be found on the members-only view of the [WinterTC55 GitHub organisation](https://github.com/WinterTC55?view_as=member).

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues) in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
