
| **Minutes of the:** | **26th meeting of Ecma TC55** |
|---------------------|-------------------------------|
| **held in:**        | **Teleconference**            |
| **on:**             | **29 May 2026**               |

|                |                                                                                                                                                           |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.)                                                                                                                             |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), Leo Kettmeir (Deno Land, Inc), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Maël Nison (Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert) |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Rose Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                       |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Zoom for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of *28 April 2026*

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/187). The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the chair merged it.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/188), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
  * TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the [Royalty-free patent policy](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/royalty-free-patent-policy-extension-option/), an extension of the Ecma [Code of Conduct in Patent Matters](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/code-of-conduct-in-patent-matters/)
  * Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* Runtime Keys copyright
* Hosting and URLs for WinterTC website and specs
* Package Maps

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 Runtime Keys Technical Report (Aki Braun)

The secretary informed the technical committee that Ecma traditionally does not use the [Alternative copyright notice](https://ecma-international.org/policies/by-ipr/ecma-text-copyright-policy/#alternative-copyright-notice) on Technical Reports, and thus there was a possibility the GA may reject the Runtime Keys technical report as a result. In the spirit of openness, and with respect toward how additions are made (i.e. manufacturers forking the document on GitHub and opening Pull Requests), the committee chose to keep the alternative copyright. If the GA expresses concern or requests more information, the chairs and secretary will engage in conversation with the GA at that time.

## 4.2 Hosting and URLs for WinterTC website and specs (Andreu Botella)

Proposed and agreed: we should add runtime keys to the “work” section of wintertc.org

Proposed and agreed: Minimum common API is published; the standard number should be displayed and “proposal” should be removed from its subdomain.

Proposed and agreed: Proposal CLI API should probably be removed as it has no champion.

The proposals and the website itself are hosted on Deno Deploy, but they’re all static sites. Given Luca is no longer co-chair or at Deno Land, perhaps hosting should be simplified. Do we find another third-party service that we are paying for? Do we rely on an Ecma member (either Deno or someone else)?

The secretary suggested statichost.eu as an option, and will continue to investigate if there is an Ecma-level infrastructure option.

Ethan emphasised that the main priority, regardless of what hosting solution is decided, is that chairs and the secretary have access to manage the hosting, the domain, certificates if necessary, etc.

Owen will make [an issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/190) in the WinterTC55 Admin repo. Aki will make sure that Andreu has access to the DNS for wintertc.org, and then will discuss potential Ecma infra with Patrick Luthi in July.

## 4.3 Package maps (Maël Nison)

Maël joined as an invited expert from yum (and noting a collaboration with pnpm) to discuss a [package maps](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/173), a standardised method for package managers to communicate dependency info to runtimes.

Each runtime has a bespoke algorithm for loading modules, nonstandard. The package maps proposal is looking to address a handful of details in module resolution that currently allow for undesirable hoisting and improperly enforced boundaries, as well as inconsistencies around symlinks and other filesystem-dependent knowledge when building the dependency graph. The package managers know where dependencies are on disk, and theoretically could provide that information to the runtime.

Package maps are similar to import maps, but import maps were designed for browsers, which is a significantly different use case from other runtimes—most obviously because of static vs dynamic imports.

The chair expressed interest in continuing to discuss this as a specification within WinterTC, and the committee concurred.

# 5 Any other business

An FYI for the group: Ethan and Aki will be at Web Engines Hackfest speaking about [Runtime Keys](https://webengineshackfest.org/\#registry), and Andreu Botella will be hosting a [WinterTC breakout session](https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/88).

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Zoom video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on [12 June](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/191).

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
