|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [23rd meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/174) |
| held in:        | Teleconference                                                              |
| on:             | 03 April 2026                                                               |

|                |                                                                                                                                    |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                      |
| **Attendees:** | Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Aki Rose Braun (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Samina Husain (Ecma International), Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                 |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, co-chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 20 March 2026

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as a [pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/171). The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and the vice chair merged it.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on ***[the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/174)***, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
* TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the Royalty-free patent policy, an extension of the Ecma Code of Conduct in Patent Matters
* Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
* Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
* Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
* calendar events
* video call
* Runtime keys (10 min?)
* Environment Access API [\[PROPOSAL\] Environment Access API \#172](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/172) (15 min?)
* Package maps [Interest check: package maps \#173](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/173) (10 min?)

# 4 Discussions

## 4.1 Video call

The committee remains undecided on their long-term plans for video call hosting. Andreu Botella will continue to investigate Igalia’s Jitsi setup, in the meantime meetings will use the Expert Zebra kMeet link.

## 4.2 Runtime keys

Ethan Arrowood went through a list of open comments on the draft Runtime Keys technical report, leaving comments on the [PR](https://github.com/WinterTC55/runtime-keys/pull/30) in real time. Some highlights:
* Secretary Aki Braun suggested that the report be explicit in its disclaimer that inclusion of a given runtime did not imply that said runtime is conformant with any Ecma specifications, the committee adopted the suggestion with the addition of the word “fully”
* Andreu Bottella suggested that Browserslist be directly linked from the TR. While there was some concern about long-term linkrot, the committee decided Browserslist had a lengthy enough history to be a reliable link. The committee will confirm the validity of the link each time the report is updated.
* The open question of whether proprietary software can be added to the registry was discussed. The ongoing conflicts are that
  * Proprietary software cannot even be reviewed in a meaningful way by committee members for validity
  * Manufacturers of proprietary software want assurance that they will not encounter a conflict with a small open-source project years down the line after investing years of time and money into development
  * Proprietary vs internal is a meaningful distinction—there’s no explicit association with open source in the runtime keys report, but internal is exceptionally challenging to validate as even baseline existing
* Some assessment criteria will be intentionally left vague to enable committee discretion in situations such as above or potential “slop” scenarios that do not appear to have long-term stability or maintainability

## 4.3 Package maps

There are currently no Ecma delegates involved with package maps as proposed, though the committee has expressed an interest in developing package maps within TC55. [The committee will investigate](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/173#issuecomment-4183889844) whether any of the current participants are involved with Ecma members or if they should be extended an invitation to participate as an invited expert.

# 5 Any other business

There will be another chair election in the next meeting or two due to co-chair Luca Casonato departing Deno, Inc. Information will be posted on GitHub.

# 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 16 April.

## 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity.

# 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
