|                 |                                                                             |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [20th meeting of Ecma TC55](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/163) |
| held in:        | Google Meet (virtual)                                                       |
| on:             | 20 February 2026                                                            |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **Attendees:** | Luca Casonato (Deno Land, Inc), Andreu Botella (Igalia, S.L.), Chris de Almeida (OpenJS Foundation), Jacob Smith (OpenJS Foundation), Ishat Gupta (Invited Expert), Ethan Arrowood (Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Invited Expert), Filip Skokan (Invited Expert), Jean Burellier (OpenJS Foundation), Samina Husain (Ecma International), Aki Rose Braun (Ecma International)  |
| **Secretary:** | Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

# 1	Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Andreu Botella**, co-chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking, and directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/tree/main/VIDEO_RECORDING_AND_LEGAL_DISCLAIMER.md) if they were not familiar.

# 2	Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 06 February 2026

In addition to its addition to the Ecma file server and distribution to Ecma members, the minutes are published as [a pull request on GitHub](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/pull/166). The committee confirmed they’d reviewed the PR and then **Andreu** merged it.

# 3	Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on [the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/163), as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

- Review of the notes for last meeting (5 min)
- Approval of this meeting's agenda (2 min)
- Review of Ecma IPR policy (1 min)
  - TC55 is a Royalty-Free Technical committee, which means it operates under the Royalty-free patent policy, an extension of the Ecma Code of Conduct in Patent Matters
  - Make sure you have reviewed this policy and, where applicable, so has your legal team
- TC55 2026 chair election (2 min)
- Runtime keys (10 min)
- HTTP server API (40 min)
- CLI / Standard Out API

# 4	Discussions

## 4.1	TC55 Chair Election

**Aki Braun** announced that the secretariat had approved TC55’s preference for a chair group as opposed to a chair and vice chair. The chair group of **Luca Casonato** and **Andreu Botella** was then (re-)elected by acclimation. There were no other contenders in the running. The committee also eliminated the editor position, with appreciation for **James Snell** in the past year.

## 4.2	Runtime keys

**Ethan Arrowood** informed the committee that there had not been any additional feedback on the Runtime Keys technical report, and deferred a more thorough update until next meeting.

## 4.3	HTTP server API

**Luca Casonato** began with reviewing decisions made at the last meeting, including splitting out the request handler signature to narrow focus.

### 4.3.1	Lifecycles

The next topic to assess was to be lifecycles. The canonical source for these decisions is [the GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/5), but for posterity the following is the current state after the 20th meeting of TC55.

#### 4.3.1.1	Handler process

1. Client sends request headers to the server (h1/h2/h3) -> `url`, `headers`, whether a `body` is present, and `req.connection`
1. Client can send a body (optional) (h1/h2/h3)
   - h1 either streaming (transfer-encoding: chunked) or fixed size (content-length)
   - h2/h3 are always streaming, but could have a size indication (content-length)
1. Server could respond with client hints before the real response ([How to send early hints #4](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/4))
1. Server could respond with status code + headers (even before the full client body is at the server, or even has been sent), additionally specify which trailer "headers" you want respond with ([Trailer support in the API whatwg/fetch#981](https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/issues/981))
1. Server can respond with a body or upgrading the connection to a different protocol (which would have to be advertised through `upgrade` header).
1. Server is done sending the response body or the upgraded connection closes.
1. Respond with trailers that you advertised

1 must happen before 3 and 4, and 6 stops 2.

#### 4.3.1.2	Trailers

The committee discussed the best way to acknowledge a feature that will be normative in the future, and is specificied, but is not yet normative. They came to the conclusion that trailers would be best recorded in a note within the standard.

#### 4.3.1.3	Scenarios for which the committee is designing

- Basic req with no body, server responds with status code + headers + body
- Streaming req body, server responds with status code + headers + body
  - The request body must not outlive the response body (it must complete before the response body).
- Upgrade request, server responds with status code + headers, and upgrades the connection
  - Lifetime of the req/resp is now bound to the upgraded socket
- Client sends request, server responds with early hint, server responds with status code + headers + body

### 4.3.2	Early Hints

Next, the committee dug into how to manage early hints: headers that are sent before the response body is ready. The outcome of the conversation is recorded in [its GitHub issue](https://github.com/WinterTC55/proposal-http-server-api/issues/4), but is included below for posterity of the exact version.

existing signature:

```typescript
(req: Request) => Promise<Response>
```

two options:

1. method on the request: req.sendEarlyHints(headers)
1. part of the response
  ```typescript
  type EarlyHint = { headers: Headers; response: Promise<Response> };
  
  type Handler = (req: Request) => Promise<Response> | Promise<EarlyHint>;
  ```

## 4.4	CLI / Standard Out API

**Ishat Gupta** wanted to propose coming up with a CLI/StdOut API on console that utilised the web’s Streams API to replicate the Fetch API’s approach to streaming a response body, but for StdOut.

**Andreu** recalled that there was interest in a CLI API proposal from Oliver Medhurst earlier in WinterCG & TC55’s history, but they have discontinued their work on it.

While the committee found the idea interesting, there was initial resistance due to the fact that the committee does not define “console”. There was a willingness to explore the space somewhere other than console.

# 5	Any other business

None.

# 6	Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 06 March 2026.

## 6.1	Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the WinterTC admin repo, and remain available in perpetuity. The next is available now [WinterTC/admin#167](https://github.com/WinterTC55/admin/issues/167)

# 7	Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.

