## Meeting 2022-04-14

### Attendees
- James M Snell
- Filip Skokan
- Rita Kozlov
- Becca Zandstein
- Steve Faulkner
- Gal Schlezinger
- Alyson Cabral
- Luca Casonato
- Eugene Kim
- Robert Palmer

### Action Items
Meeting notes can be found in https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/15
1. We need to elect chair(s) for the group
2. We need to review and adopt the charter we have drafted
3. Website needs to be reviewed that Luca has been working on 

### Notes
- Will have a nomination period (self-nominations only) for 2 weeks. Self-nominations should be posted in the GitHub Issue.
   - We'll review in 2 weeks which would mean not having official chairs in place by the time the announcement of the group is made.
- Charter looks to be in a sufficient state. No objections from the group on the call.
   - Luca has a minor change he wants to make (more of a technicality).
   - ❓Can we formally approve this charter before a chair is in place?
      - We can decide amongst ourselves that this is in a sufficient state and formally adopt it after chairs are officially in place.
      - Charter considered officially adopted ✔️ No objections from the group today.
- Code of Conduct:
   - Boilerplate CoC taken from W3C.
   - Once a chair is in place we will also need to figure out how to handle CoC violations and enforcement.
      - CoC is considered officially adopted ✔️ No objections from the group today.
- Website: 
   - Website code can be found in https://github.com/wintercg/www
   - Need logo updates made:
      - Cloudflare logo may need to be the Workers logo. We should reconnect with Rita and Aly.
      - Vercel logo needs to be added.
      - Need to communicate with Node.js community working group before adding that logo.
      - Should separate runtime logos and the company logos.
        - James will work on this.
- Press release update:
   - Draft for PR and Blog has been sent around to initial folks. Still finalizing some quotes.
- In-person meeting @ OpenJS will be in Austin, TX. 
   - A few folks on the group right now will be there including James and Steve.
- Workstreams update:
   - Will want to eventually status on what each of these workstreams are at. 
      - Each workstream will also require a `champion`. Likely does not need to be as formal as the `chair` nomination+selection process
   - 3 streams identified thus far:
      1. Common APIs
         - https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-common-minimum-api
         - Deno and Node workers. As long as API was implemented for at least 2 of these it was added to the list in https://proposal-common-min-api.deno.dev/
         - Global methods and properties should not be considered to be finalized. Requires more conversation - please treat this as a draft and provide feedback via PRs.
         - **James Snell volunteers to continue acting as a champion for this group**
      2. Crypto Streams
         - https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-webcrypto-streams
         - Luca is working on a spec that's still a WIP/draft state.
            - https://proposal-webcrypto-streams.deno.dev/
         - Spec will be a _proposal_ to add streaming support to crypto. We don't intend to publish spec ourselves - instead will submit to the W3c working group to review.
      3. Fetch subset
         - Have implementations of fetch in node, deno and workers. What's common about them is the lack of browser support. Idea behind here is to identify and document what will work consisently across all the environments and their differences (fetch in server vs browser).
         - When Matteo returns we'll kick this off more officially in earnest.
